
#############################################################
# Coq theories for CFML

## Generic libraries

 * __LibSepTLCbuffer.v__
   contains definitions, lemmas and tactics to be later merged into TLC.

 * __LibSepVar.v__
   defines a representation of variables as strings.

 * __LibSepFmap.v__
   defines a representation of finite maps, used to represent stores.

 * __LibSepBind.v__
   defines binders and contexts.


## Generic Separation Logic constructions

 * __LibSepSimpl.v__
   implements the simplification tactic for heap entailment.

 * __LibSepFunctor.v__
   contains a functor with derived properties for Separation Logic.
   This functor is used by plain separation logic and also by the
   two extensions (credits and read-only) mentioned further on.


## Semantics

 * __Semantics.v__
   defines the syntax and semantics of an imperative lambda-calculus.
   At the moment, this formalization still misses a number of features
   compared with the core-OCaml supported by cfmlc.


## Separation Logic

 * __SepBase.v__
   sets up a plain Separation Logic.

 * __SepLifted.v__
   sets up a "lifted" Separation Logic, where program values are 
   described using Coq values.

 * __WPBase.v__
   sets up a weakest-precondition generator for plain Separation Logic.

 * __WPLifted.v__
   sets up a weakest-precondition generator for lifted Separation Logic.
   The auxiliary definitions involved in this file are the predicates
   that appear in the characteristic formulae produced by cfmlc.


## CFML tooling

 * __WPTactics.v__
   tactics for carrying out proofs in the lifted Separation Logic.

 * __WPRecord.v__
   provides support for reasoning about records.

 * __WPArray.v__ (with auxiliary file __WPArrayNonlifted.v__)
   provides support for reasoning about arrays.

 * __WPHeader.v__
   header file to be loaded by `*_ml.v` files generated by cfmlc.

 * __WPLib.v__
   header file to be loaded by the user's `*_proof.v` files.


